January 18, 2007
Some time ago I began playing with the IFS version of the Blancmange Curve, a fractal curve which has no tangents anywhere.  I use the simple programme called Brazil for initial IFS experiments, and from its .ofb files I export my findings to .ifs files which Fractint and other programmes can read.  Brazil is useful because it has a square as a standard boundary, giving maximum use of space with no necessity for zooming out (in Fractint).  I then usually check out my work in Fractint; though I have also started experimenting in Apophysis.
Eventually I stumbled across a set of IFS elements which can be combined endlessly to produce beautiful spirals.  They include 2 or 3 squares or parallelograms of side length 0.5, called the "form holons", and a "spiralising" square of size 1/sqrt 2, or roughly 0.707, this at a 45-degree angle.  The form holons without the spiraliser can result in an IFS of as little as a single point or a line of Cantor Dust; but adding the spiraliser nonetheless results in the new spiral.  

I have assembled a set of 38400 such spirals, all discrete, not seqential frames of an animation, from initial form holons and one spiraliser, combining them using a text editor; and then enlarged this set with 2 others to 115600 spirals, by substituting 2 pairs of other possible spiralisers.  The whole set is available in 2 maximally compressed zipped files of just over 800kb each.  38400ifs.zip has the 3 complete sets as 3 large .ifs files.  00010020ifs.zip is the same 3 sets broken into sets of 1999 items so that Fractint can parse them.  Each zip file also contains this text file and several map files for Fractint use.  Firecodb.map is for seeing the spiral form quickly, hotmap03-06.map (modified from Hal Lane's recent posting) are for rendering it.  (There may be other more pleasing colour maps for these spirals, but I like these - at least for Fractint.)

The relationship between items with the same number is that only their spiralisers differ.  The unlettered set, 38400, are the original, "standard" versions.  Letter "a" have the most spectacular variations; "b" are less spectacular but still noteworthy as spirals.

Animations between these spirals should be spectacular; the best results would be those which keep the entire animation within a square of maximum size on the computer screen.

Enjoy!  And - how would this idea work extended into 3d, e.g. in XenoDream, for those who work in that programme?

Anthony Hanmer
Tbilisi, Republic of Georgia
a.hanmer@gmail.com